# MySQL_DataAnalystics

### Dashboard Link : 

## Problem Statement and Overall Objectives

The entrepreneur JB is opening a new pizzeria to sell and deliver different sorts of pizza. The company wants a relational database to enable the capture and storage of various important data generated by the business. 
This data/information will the be analyzed and visualized to gain more intelligent insights into the business. 

The main areas to focus on: 
1. Orders
2. Stock control
   - What ingredients go into each pizza
   - Their quantity based on the size of the pizza
   - The existing stock level
     NB! In this project, it is assumed that the lead time for delivery by suppliers is the same for all ingredients. 
4. Staff
   - Which staff members are working and when
   - Based on the staff salary information, determine the cost of each pizza (ingredients+chefs+delivery cost)

### Steps followed: 

#### Step1: Build a SQL database
  1. Creation of the database schema
     - Creation of the schema was done in the platform "QuickDBD"

    After considering the business objectives, a database schema was created following normalization priciples to avoid redundancy
    and make the database more practical and efficient. 
    Here is the final schema that was built: 
    
  2. Creation of a database in "MySQL" and importing the externally created schema into the MySQL database. 
  3. Uploading of data into different tables in MySQL. 

#### Step2: Write SQL Queries (views)

#### Step3: Build daschboards
